# Recovery

https://open.kattis.com/problems/recovery

Recovery is a deceptively simple Ad Hoc problem. You are given a parity array for the rows and columns of a board and you are asked to generate some solution for this board that follows two constraints. First we want to minimize the number of 0's we place on our board, and secondly we want to minimize the lexicographical order of the board. In order to minimize the number of 0s, lets first consider how many 0s our solution may require. If we consider the parity of the base board and compare it to the parity given, we know that there must be at least one 0 in this row or column. Since each 0 can affect both 1 row and 1 column, the number of 0s we have must be equal to the larger number of differences in rows or columns. If these are unequal, then we must have some rows or columns that have multiple zeroes. Now that we know how many zeroes to place let's go about placing them. Let's first consider the extra 0s for which we don't have both a row and a column spot. Since we want the smallest lexicographical board these ought to go in the lowest row or column. Lets walk through the first row or column and place these 0s each time we encounter a spot with a difference and update our candidate solution accordingly. Now since we've placed all our extra 0s we know that the remaining 0s must have both an incorrect row and column. If we walk through the board locations in order we can repeatedly find the smallest such location. Finally, we check if our solution is the same as the target to see if we have a valid board, and print our result. Total time complexity is linear in board size (50 \* 50); well within bounds.
