# Hotels

https://open.kattis.com/problems/hotels

Hotels is a tricky problem that really tests your ability to reduce problems down to their core elements and combine approaches. We had the kernel of the solution during the contest, but did not implement it in favor of easier problems. The problem consists of up to 100 elevators each visiting up to 1000 floors in a 1e9 space, and asks you to find the floor that requires you to take the most stairs to get to it. The solution we have written for this abuses the fact that there are only 100 elevators to construct a full graph with 100 nodes. We have to first calculate the distance between each pair of elevators. ATM we use a linear search to do this, which appears to be fast enough, but I'm sure that this could be optimized with some math. Once the graph is constructed we do a dijkstras from the ground floor and find the minimum distance from the ground floor to each elevator. Once we have the minimum distance to each elevator, we create a series of portals, which are a pair of floor and stair cost, and sort them. The final step is to walk through the list of stair portals, find the floor with the largest total stair cost between each consecutive pair (which can be calculated - we don't do a 1e9 walk), and check if that is our new furthest portal.

The total time complexity comes mainly from the linear search for elevator distance; we may have to consider up to 2000 distance pairs for each of the 100*100 elevator pairs, coming out to 20,000,000 operations. The next part that could be worrying is the djikstras, which has cost of (100*100 edges * log(100 vertices))
