# Dominant strings

https://open.kattis.com/problems/dominant

AFAICT, this problem is just a hyper-optimized n^2 solution. If there is a faster way to do it I'd love to see it, but this works. We are given a set of up to 15000 <= 10 length strings, and are asked to find all those strings that have no other string in the set that supersedes them, meaning that it has all of the same letters that they do and at least one more. A first naive solution I wrote was to create multisets for each item, compare each pair of items and remove whichever had a strictly smaller multiset if either. This was too slow. I made it faster by also creating a bitmask for each item and only comparing the items if one or the other was equal to the or of their bitmasks, meaning that I skipped comparisons that had differing letters at the overhead of a few ors per comparison. This was faster, but still too slow. I then used the same bitmasks to seed my multiset compare -> if either item was less than their or, I knew that had to be a smaller item in letters, but it could still possibly beat the other in count. This was yet faster but still too slow. Next I serialized the strings, sorted them, and used that to remove multiples of the same signature strings, grouping them into a single item to be tested. This made it significantly faster because equvalent items take the longest to compare, but it was still too slow. I then finally pre-seeded my maximal items set with all of those items that had the maximum length, as those items cannot be dominated. This was finally fast enough at 0.9s/1.0s, so I stopped.